How to Tie a Bow Tie.
Whether you're a distinguished professor,
a fledgling politician, or a James Bond wanna-be,
knowing how to tie a bow tie comes with the
territory.
You will need A bow tie A dress shirt or tuxedo
shirt and a mirror.
Step 1.
Lift up the collar of your shirt and drape
the tie around your neck with one end hanging
1 and a half inches below the other end.
Step 2.
Button the top button of your shirt.
If you want a nice thick knot, use a tie made
of a thick material.
Step 3.
Cross the long end in front of the short end.
Step 4.
With your thumb, bring the long end behind
the short end and pass it up through the loop
so it hangs down on top of the shorter end.
Adjust the tightness of the tie now, as you
won't be able to readjust later.
Step 5.
Push the long end aside, and double the short
end on itself so the narrow portion of the
end is brought up to the knot and the loop
lays sideways, from one collar point to the
other.
Step 6.
Hold this bow with one hand and don't let
go.
This will stay in place for the rest of the
steps.
Step 7.
Pull the other end straight up behind the
bow, then loop it around the middle of the
bow.
Step 8.
With the end behind the bow again, push the
wide center of the end through the knot, creating
a new bow facing in the opposite direction
as the first one.
Step 9.
Pull on both bows at the same time to tighten
the knot.
Step 10.
Gently pull on the ends to return them to
the same length as the bows if necessary,
straighten the knot.
Quick—do something debonair!
Did you know Dating to the 18th century, the
bow tie is likely derived from the French
jabot, a style of frilly cravat.